---
title: "Release 5.1.0.10"
---

# Release 5.1.0.10

**Date:** Dec 23, 2014

Juno 5.1.0.10 is a moderate update.
###### Core		
Major changes to URL-Encoded serializer and parser.
Logic for serializing and parsing URL-Encoded key-value pairs moved to \{@link oaj.urlencoding.UrlEncodingSerializer\} and \{@link oaj.urlencoding.UrlEncodingParser\} classes.
Logic for serializing and parsing URL-Encoded values moved to new \{@link oaj.uon.UonSerializer\} and \{@link oaj.uon.UonParser\} classes.
Fix bug where `BeanRuntimeExceptions` weren't being thrown on subsequent calls to \{@link oaj.BeanContext#getClassMeta(Class)\}.
Moved logic for `BeanContext.getPrimitiveDefault(Class)` to new \{@link oaj.ClassMeta#getPrimitiveDefault()\} method for performance reasons.
Fixed bug in ~~BeanContext.addTransforms(Class[])~~that would cause filter order to get messed up.
\{@link oaj.ClassMeta#newInstance()\} can now create array instances.
Fixed indentation bugs in \{@link oaj.html.HtmlSerializer\}.
Fixed issue in \{@link oaj.html.HtmlSerializer\} where newlines were not being converted into line breaks.
New \{@link oaj.serializer.WriterSerializer#toString(Object)\} method that's identical to the serialize method but throws `RuntimeExceptions` to make the serializer easier to use for debugging.
###### Server		
Fixed major issue that prevented parsing URL-Encoded form posts into POJOs.
Calling ~~HttpServlet.getParameter(String)~~was forcing the underlying servlet code to process the HTTP body itself, preventing the `UrlEncodingSerializer`
class from being able to parse the content.  Updated code no longer inadvertantly calls this method.
New ~~RestRequest.getQueryParameter(String)~~, ~~RestRequest.hasQueryParameter(String)~~, and ~~RestRequest.hasAnyQueryParameters(String[])~~
methods that only look for parameters in the URL query string to prevent loading and parsing of URL-Encoded form posts.
New ~~@QParam~~ and ~~@HasQParam~~annotations for accessing query parameters from the URL query string.
`&plainText` parameter can now specify a false value.
Removed properties parameters from ~~RestServlet.onPreCall(RestRequest)~~and ~~RestServlet.onPostCall(RestRequest,RestResponse)~~ methods
since the properties are already accessible through `RestRequest.getProperties()`.
Added \{@link oaj.uon.UonSerializer\} and \{@link oaj.uon.UonParser\} to serializer and parser lists on 
~~BasicRestServlet~~and ~~RestServletJenaDefault~~.
###### Client		
Moved to Apache HttpClient 4.3 to match Jazz 6.0.
Renamed `RestResponseEntity` to ~~RestRequestEntity~~.
Improved performance on URL-Encoded form posts by serializing directly to output stream instead of serialized to string first.
New methods on \{@link oajrc.RestClient\} class that makes it easier to associate serializer and parser attributes with registered serializer and parser:
~~RestClient.setProperty(String,Object)~~			
~~RestClient.setProperties(ObjectMap)~~	
~~RestClient.addNotBeanClasses(Class[])~~		
~~RestClient.addTransforms(Class[])~~		
~~RestClient.addImplClass(Class,Class)~~	
Renamed `RestClient.shutdown()` to \{@link oajrc.RestClient#close()\} to mirror change in Apache API.		
###### Samples		
New `CodeFormatterResource` for quickly formatting Java and XML code samples in Javadocs.
New `UrlEncodedFormResource` for showing how to work with URL-Encoded form posts.