---
title: "Release 8.1.3"
---

# Release 8.1.3

**Date:** Jan 20, 2020

Juneau 8.1.3 is a moderate release.
###### juneau-marshall
Dynamically applied annotations: ~~DynamicallyAppliedAnnotations~~
Better representation of nulls for XML and HTML content properties.
Old:  ""
New:  ""
Configurable properties such as ~~Context.CONTEXT_debug~~ can now be set globally by either
system properties or environment variables.
For CONTEXT_debug you can use either the system
property "Context.debug" or environment variables "CONTEXT_DEBUG".
Fixed an initialization time race condition that can cause initial parse errors when concurrently parsing into
array types like so: 
```text
JsonParser.DEFAULT.parse(input, MyBean[].class);
```
###### juneau-rest-server
Fixed bug in ~~BasicRestCallHandler~~ where if you have the following REST methods...
```text
@RestMethod(name="GET", path="/foo")
@RestMethod(name="*", path="/bar")
```
...and you tried to make a GET request to /bar, you'd erroneously get a 404 error instead of matching the 2nd method.
Fixed an issue involving using Juneau REST with Spring Security.  When Spring Security cannot authenticate a 
request, it sets the URL on the request to "/error" with a 401 status.  When Juneau then processes
this request, it cannot find that mapping and changes the status to 404 which messes with HTTP clients.
Solution was to add a default no-op error method to the ~~BasicRestConfig~~(and implementers):
```text
@RestMethod(name="*", path="/error")
public void error() {}
```
Fixed a bug where `@RestResource(debug="true")` wouldn't log requests if a 
@RestMethod-annotated method was not matched.
Renamed the following annotations:
@Rest(attrs) --> ~~Rest.reqAttrs() @Rest(reqAttrs)~~
@Rest(defaultRequestHeaders) --> ~~Rest.reqHeaders() @Rest(reqHeaders)~~
@Rest(defaultResponseHeaders) --> ~~Rest.resHeaders() @Rest(resHeaders)~~
@RestMethod(attrs) --> ~~RestMethod.reqAttrs() @RestMethod(reqAttrs)~~
@RestMethod(defaultRequestHeaders) --> ~~RestMethod.reqHeaders() @RestMethod(reqHeaders)~~
New auto-generated REST method execution statistics: ~~RestExecutionStatistics~~
###### juneau-rest-client
Several convenience methods defined in \{@link oajrc.RestClient.Builder\} that were deprecated in 8.1.2 have been
undeprecated in this release due to user feedback.
###### juneau-doc
New auto-generated glossary of all configurable properties: ~~GlossaryConfigurableProperties~~