---
id: 02.08.DevelopmentWishList
title: Development wish list
---

This page contains an informal list of possible future feature work in Juneau. Please feel free to add to this list with ideas and put (+1 userid) next to items you're interested in.

## Overall

1. Investigate OpenAPI 3 support. The Swagger API is currently at Swagger 2.0.
2. Proofread documentation. It would be good to clean up areas that are confusing.

## juneau-marshall

1. YAML support.  
   This is kind of big though. Essentially cloning the JSON serializers and parsers and converting them to use YAML syntax.
2. Other possible languages: BSON, Protobuf, Amazon Ion
3. @JsonSchema validation support for all serializers and parsers.  
   This is also kind of big. Basically adding SERIALIZER_validating and PARSER_validating settings (disabled by default) that would allow automatic schema validation of input and output just like we do for the OpenAPI serializer and parser.
4. FreeMarker integration.
5. Test @Header("\*") using maps/beans and related annotations.
6. Simplify @Body annotation by merging @Schema into it.
7. Test RestRequest.getRequest() and @Request as an annotation.
8. Document RestRequest.getRequest().
9. Find references to JsonSerializer.Simple

## juneau-examples-core

1. Creating generic JSON objects
2. Defining XML namespaces

## juneau-rest-examples

1. Packaging as WAR files (documentation or article?)
2. Customizing OPTIONS pages
3. Rendering form entry pages
4. Using the ZipFileList response handler
5. Implementing console-output pages in HTML
6. Using configuration files
7. Making a bean traversable
8. Using the Queryable converter
9. Sending raw output
10. Retrieving raw input
11. Accessing request query parameters
12. Accessing request path variables
13. Accessing request content
14. Accessing request header values
15. Accessing the path pattern remainder
16. Creating ResourceGroup pages
17. Using matchers to define multiple Java methods to the same path pattern
18. Using the Remoteable API
19. Sending a redirect request
20. Changing the stylesheet used by the HTML serializer
21. Using the Introspector API to invoke methods on Java objects through REST calls
22. Customizing serializers and parsers at the method level
23. Accessing config file values
24. Accessing request query parameters on URL-Encoded FORM posts without triggering HTML body to be read
25. Accessing localized messages
26. Defining your own response handlers
27. Guarding access to a servlet or method
28. Handling servlet initialization errors
29. Handling exceptions that occur during response processing
30. Customizing logging
31. Creating an ATOM feed
32. Creating a REST API against a file system
33. Creating a Docker REST API
34. Creating a REST API for storing and retrieving images
35. Creating a REST API for echoing requests
36. Creating a Tumblr REST API
37. Creating a Cloudant REST API
38. Using onPreCall() to intercept requests before processing
39. Using onPostCall() to intercept requests after processing
40. Creating child resources programmatically
41. Defining default request headers
42. Defining default response headers
43. Defining your own var-resolver variables
44. Serving up static files inside the /htdocs embedded package
45. Defining MIME types of files in the /htdocs folder using the createMimitypesFileTypeMap() method
46. Defining the title and description of a servlet programmatically using getDescription() and getTitle().
47. Setting properties programmatically using RestServlet.setProperty()
48. Setting and saving config file properties
49. Defining your own abstract subclass of RestServlet or RestServletDefault
50. Adding GZip support
51. Accessing environment variables in config files
