---
id: 04.04.SupportForAutoValidationInSwaggerAnnotations
title: Support for auto-validation in Swagger annotations
date: 2018-07-25
authors:
  - name: James Bognar
---

In 7.2, we're introducing auto-validation of Swagger annotations. What this means is that the various Swagger annotations are not just used for populating the Swagger JSON / UI, but are actively used in serializing/parsing/validating the HTTP parts.

For example:

This example shows a parameter of type **PetStatus[]** (which happens to be enums, but could also be POJOs as well). The **type** and **collectionFormat** attributes tell the framework to parse the incoming value as a comma-delimited list. The **_enum** shows the possible valid values. A **BadRequest** is thrown if any values don't match.

Part of this change includes combining the client-side and server-side annotations into a single set of annotations (no more confusing **org.apache.juneau.remoteable.Query** with **org.apache.juneau.rest.annotation.Query**).

Features include:

* Support for all of Swagger 2.0.
* Auto-validation for:
  * Numeric values (**minimum**, **maximum**, **exclusiveMinimum**, **exclusiveMaximum**, **multipleOf**).
  * String values (**minLength**, **maxLength**, **enum**).
  * Collection values (**items**, **minItems**, **maxItems**, **uniqueItems**).
  * Object values (**properties**, **maxProperties**, **minProperties**, **additionalProperties**).
  * Existence of values (**required**, **allowEmptyValue**).
* Support for both client-side and server-side annotations.
* Works on the **Body** annotation as well. If the media-type of the body does not match an existing serializer/parser, then the Swagger rules are used for marshalling.
* UON notation is still supported, so you can still represent arbitrary POJOs as any of the HTTP parts. However, you have to explicitly specify **format="uon"**.

