---
title: "POJO Categories"
---

In general, Juneau allows for marshalling for a wide variety of POJO types including: The following chart shows POJOs categorized into groups and whether they can be serialized or parsed:
### General POJO serialization/parsing support

GroupDescriptionExamplesCan serialize?Can parse?
1 **Java primitives and primitive objects**
- \{@code String\}
- \{@code Integer\}
- \{@code Float\}
- \{@code Boolean\}

**yes** **yes** 2 **Java Collections Framework objects, Java arrays, Java Optionals** 2a **With standard keys/values** Map keys are group [1, 4a, 6a] objects.
Map, Collection, Optional, and array values are group [1, 2, 3ac, 4a, 6a] objects.
`HashSet` `TreeMap` `List`
- `Bean[]`

`Optional` **yes** **yes** 2b **With non-standard keys/values** Map keys are group [2, 3, 4b, 5, 6b, 7] objects.
Map, Collection, and array values are group [3b, 4b, 5, 6b, 7] objects.
`HashSet` `TreeMap` `Optional` **yes** **no** 3 **Java Beans** 3a **With standard properties** These are beans that have one or more properties defined by public getter or public fields.
Properties can also be defined as final read-only fields and passed in as constructor args.
Property values are group [1, 2, 3ac, 4a, 6a] objects.
**yes** **yes** 3b **With non-standard properties or not true beans** These include true beans that have one or more properties defined by getter and setter methods or properties but property types include group [3b, 4b, 5, 6b, 7] objects.
This also includes classes that look like beans but aren't true beans.
For example, classes that have getters but not setters, or classes without no-arg constructors.
**yes** **no** 3c **Virtual beans** These are unimplemented bean interfaces with properties of type [1, 2, 3ac, 4a, 6a] objects.
Parsers will automatically  create interface proxies on top of BeanMap instances.
**yes** **yes** 3d **Read-only beans without setters** The same as 3a but without property setters or constructor args.
**yes** **no** 4 **Swapped objects** These are objects that are not directly serializable but have [ObjectSwaps](../apidocs/org/apache/juneau/swap/ObjectSwap.html) associated with them.
The purpose of a POJO swap is to convert an object to another object that is easier to serialize and parse.
For example, the [IsoLocalDateTime](../apidocs/org/apache/juneau/swaps/TemporalDateSwap/IsoLocalDateTime.html) class can be used to serialize [Date](../apidocs/java/util/Date.html) objects to ISO8601 strings, and parse them back into [Date](../apidocs/java/util/Date.html) objects.
4a **2-way swapped to group [1, 2a, 3ac] objects** For example, a swap that converts a \{@code Date\} to a \{@code String\}.
- `java.util.Date`
- `java.util.GregorianCalendar`

**yes** **yes** 4b **1-way swapped to group [1, 2, 3] objects** For example, a swap that converts an \{@code Iterator\} to a \{@code List\}.
This would be one way, since you cannot reconstruct an \{@code Iterator\}.
- `java.util.Iterator`

**yes** **no** 5 **Readers and InputStreams** Contents are serialized directly to the output stream or writer.
Typically used for low-level language-specific replacement of POJOs using per-Media-Type POJO swaps.
- \{@code FileInputStream\}
- \{@code StringReader\}

**yes** **no** 6 **Non-serializable objects with standard methods for converting to a serializable form** 6a Classes with a method that converts it to a serializable form:
- `public X swap(BeanSession);` where `X` is in groups

[1, 2a, 3ac].
- `public String toString();` where the string is any meaningful data.

And a method that converts it back into the original object:
- `public static T fromString(String);`
- `public static T valueOf(String);`
- `public static T parse(String);`
- `public static T parseString(String);`
- `public static T forName(String);`
- `public static T forString(String);`
- `public T(X);` where `X` is in groups [1, 2a, 3ac].
- `public static T unswap(BeanSession,X);` where `X` is in

groups [1, 2a, 3ac].
- `java.lang.Class`
- `java.sql.Time`
- `java.sql.Timestamp`
- `java.text.MessageFormat`
- `java.text.NumberFormat`
- `java.util.Date`
- `java.util.UUID`
- `java.util.logging.Level`
- `javax.xml.bind.DatatypeConverter`

**yes** **yes** 6b Classes that only have a method to convert to a serializable form:
- `public X swap(BeanSession);` where `X` is in groups

[1, 2, 3].
- `public String toString();` where the string is any meaningful data.

**yes** **no** 7 **All other objects** Anything that doesn't fall into one of the groups above are simply converted to \{@code Strings\} using the \{@code toString()\} method.
**yes** **no** Serializers are designed to work on tree-shaped POJO models.
These are models where there are no referential loops (e.g.
leaves with references to nodes, or nodes in one branch referencing nodes in another branch).
There is a serializer setting \{@code detectRecursions\} to look for and handle these kinds of loops (by setting these references to null) but it is not enabled by default since it introduces a moderate performance penalty.
### POJOs convertible to/from Strings

A separate category exists for POJOs that can be converted to and from Strings.
These are used in places such as:
- Serializing of POJOs to Strings in the REST client API when no serializers are registered.

Parsing of POJOs from Strings in the REST server API for "text/plain" requests where "text/plain" is not already mapped to an existing serializer.
As a general rule, all POJOs are converted to Strings using the `toString()` method.
However, there is one exception:
- [TimeZone](../apidocs/java/util/TimeZone.html) - Uses [TimeZone#getID()](../apidocs/java/util/TimeZone.html#getID())

POJOs are convertible from Strings using any of the following (matched in the specified order):
- Any of the following public static non-deprecated methods:
- `create(String)`
- `fromString(String)`
- `fromValue(String)`
- `valueOf(String)`
- `parse(String)`
- `parseString(String)`
- `forName(String)`
- `forString(String)`
- Has a public constructor that takes in a `String`.

Exceptions exist for the following classes:
- [TimeZone](../apidocs/java/util/TimeZone.html) - Uses [TimeZone#getTimeZone(String)](../apidocs/java/util/TimeZone.html#getTimeZone(String))

[Locale](../apidocs/java/util/Locale.html) - Uses [Locale#forLanguageTag(String)](../apidocs/java/util/Locale.html#forLanguageTag(String)) after replacing '_' with '-'.
[Boolean](../apidocs/java/lang/Boolean.html) - Blank and "null" are interpreted as null values.
- Primitives (except for `void.class`) - Uses the primitive wrapper classes for instantiating from Strings.

### POJOs convertible to/from other types

POJOs are also converted to various other types in places such as the Open-API serializers and parsers.
In this section, the type being converted to will be referred to as `X`.
POJOs are considered convertible from X if it has any of the following (matched in the specified order):
- Any any of the following public static non-deprecated methods:
- `create(X)`
- `from*(X)`
- Has a public constructor that takes in an `X`.
- The X class has a public non-static no-arg non-deprecated method called `to*()`.

POJOs are considered convertible from X if any of the reverse of above are true.
