---
title: "HTML5"
---

The Juneau HTML5 DTOs are simply beans with fluent-style setters that allow you to quickly construct HTML
fragments as Java objects.  These object can then be serialized to HTML using one of the existing HTML
serializers, or to other languages such as JSON using the JSON serializers.
The [HtmlBuilder](../apidocs/org/apache/juneau/dto/html5/HtmlBuilder.html) class is a utility class with predefined static methods
that allow you to easily construct DTO instances in a minimal amount of code.
The following examples show how to create common HTML DOM objects.
Java code
HTML
import static org.apache.juneau.dto.html5.HtmlBuilder.*;
Object mytable =
table(
tr(
th("c1"),
th("c2")
),
tr(
td("v1"),
td("v2")
)
);
String html = Html.of(mytablE);
c1
c2
v1
v2
import static org.apache.juneau.dto.html5.HtmlBuilder.*;
Object mydiv =
div().align("center").onmouseover("alert(\"boo!\");")
.children(
p("Juneau supports ", b(i("mixed")), " content!")
);
String html = Html.of(mydiv);
align='center' onmouseover='alert("boo!");'>
Juneau supports ***mixed*** content!
import static org.apache.juneau.dto.html5.HtmlBuilder.*;
Object myform =
form().action("/submit").method("POST")
.children(
"Position (1-10000): ", input("number").name("pos").value(1), br(),
"Limit (1-10000): ", input("number").name("limit").value(100), br(),
button("submit", "Submit"),
button("reset", "Reset")
);
String html = Html.of(myform);
action='/submit' method='POST'>
Position (1-10000): name='pos' type='number'
value='1'/>
Limit (1-10000): name='pos' type='number'
value='100'/>
type='submit'>Submit
type='reset'>Reset
Using the HTML5 DTOs, you should be able to construct any valid HTML5 from full document bodies
to any possible fragments.
The [HtmlParser](../apidocs/org/apache/juneau/html/HtmlParser.html) class can be used convert these HTML documents back
into POJOs.
Other serializers and parsers (e.g. [JsonSerializer](../apidocs/org/apache/juneau/json/JsonSerializer.html)) can be used to
represent these POJOs in languages other than HTML.
