---
title: "Overview"
---

A REST resource is simply a Java class annotated with [@Rest]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/annotation/Rest.html).
The most common case is a class that extends [BasicRestServlet]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/servlet/BasicRestServlet.html), which itself is simply an extension of [HttpServlet]({{API_DOCS}}/jakarta/servlet/http/HttpServlet.html) which allows it to be deployed as a servlet.
Juneau has two sample applications for demonstrating how to use the REST API, one using Jetty and one using Spring Boot:
- `org.apache.juneau.examples.rest.jetty`
- `org.apache.juneau.examples.rest.springboot`

The `org.apache.juneau.examples.rest.springboot` application is described in the section SpringBoot Overview.
The Jetty application consists of the following application class that registers our top-level servlet:

```java
public class App {

    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
        JettyMicroservice
            .create()
            .args(args)
            .servlet(RootResources.class)
            .build()
            .start()
            .startConsole()
            .join();
    }
}
```

The root resources class is an example of a router page that is used to attach children to:

```java
@Rest(
    title="Root resources",
    description="Example of a router resource page.",
    children={
        HelloWorldResource.class,
        DtoExamples.class,
        UtilityBeansResource.class,
        HtmlBeansResource.class,
        ConfigResource.class,
        ShutdownResource.class
    }
)
@HtmlDocConfig(
    widgets={
        ContentTypeMenuItem.class
    },
    navlinks={
        "api: servlet:/api",
        "stats: servlet:/stats",
        "$W{ContentTypeMenuItem}",
        "source: $C{Source/gitHub}/org/apache/juneau/examples/rest/RootResources.java"
    },
    aside={
        "",
        "	This is an example of a 'router' page that serves as a jumping-off point to child resources.
```
", " Resources can be nested arbitrarily deep through router pages.
", " Note the API link provided that lets you see the generated swagger doc for this page.
", " Also note the STATS link to view runtime statistics on this page.
", " Also note the SOURCE link to view the source code for the page.
", " All content on pages in the UI are serialized POJOs.
In this case, it's a serialized array of beans with 2 properties, 'name' and 'description'.
", " Other features (such as this aside) are added through annotations.
", "" \}, asideFloat="RIGHT" ) @SerializerConfig( // For testing purposes, we want to use single quotes in all the serializers so it's easier to do simple // String comparisons.
// You can apply any of the Serializer/Parser/BeanContext settings this way.
quoteChar="'" ) public class RootResources extends BasicRestServletGroup \{ private static final long serialVersionUID = 1L; \} This is what it looks like in a browser:
##### HTML representation
##### JSON representation
The [HelloWorldResource]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/examples/rest/HelloWorldResource.html) class is our basic example of a child REST resource:
```java
@Rest(
    title="Hello World",
    description="An example of the simplest-possible resource",
    path="/helloWorld"
)
@HtmlDocConfig(
    aside={
        "",
        "	This page shows a resource that simply response with a 'Hello world!' message
```
", " The POJO serialized is a simple String.
", "" \} ) public class HelloWorldResource extends BasicRestObject \{ |		@RestGet(path="/*", summary="Responds with \"Hello world!\"") public String sayHello() \{ return "Hello world!"; \} \} This is what it looks like in a browser:
##### HTML representation
It doesn't much simpler than that.
In this case, we're simply returning a string that will be converted to any of the supported languages (e.g.
JSON, XML, HTML, ...).
However, we could have returned any POJO consisting of beans, maps, collections, etc...