---
title: "Release 5.0.0.32"
---

# Release 5.0.0.32

**Date:** Oct 5, 2013

Juno 5.0.0.32 is a moderate update.

- New support for generating and consuming fully-compliant JSON-Schema documents.
  See  ~~jsonschema~~ for information.

- New methods added to <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/parser/Parser.html" target="_blank">Parser</a>:
  - `org.apache.juneau.parser.Parser.parseMap(Object,int,Class,Class,Class)`
  - `org.apache.juneau.parser.Parser.parseCollection(Object,int,Class,Class)`

- <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/annotation/Bean.html" target="_blank">@Bean</a> annotation can now be defined on interfaces and inherited by subclasses.

- Support for customizing serialized values for `Enums` through overriding `toString()` and `fromString()` on the enum class.
  Previously used `Enum.valueOf()` to convert strings back into `Enums`.
  Used for JSON-Schema support to allow <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/bean/jsonschema/JsonType.html" target="_blank">JsonType</a> enum to be
  serialized to lowercase per the specification (e.g. `"string"` instead of `"STRING"`).

- ~~Cognos~~ DTOs now have fluent-style bean setters.

- Support for generic bean objects whose type was erased at compile time.
  Previous behavior gave you an error message that the type could not be determined.
  New behavior assumes a type of `Object` when the type is erased.

- Bug fixes:
  - When duplicate fluent-style setters were defined with different parameter types (e.g. `setFoo(Foo f)`, `setFoo(Bar b)`), the <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/BeanMap.html" target="_blank">BeanMap</a> API would sometime choose the wrong setter as the bean property setter.
    Now validates that the setter being chosen is the one whose return type matches the property getter.
  - Passing in `Accept` GET parameters with `'+'` (e.g. `&Accept=text/json+simple`) wasn't working anymore.
    The `Accept` parameter is supposed to interpret spaces as `'+'` to allow you to not have to write
    `&Accept=text/json%2Bsimple`.
  - Parsers would not set bean properties of abstract type <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Number.html" target="_blank">Number</a>.
    Now it detects the numeric type based on input and sets the value accordingly.