---
title: "Release 5.1.0.10"
---

# Release 5.1.0.10

**Date:** Dec 23, 2014

Juno 5.1.0.10 is a moderate update.

### Core

- Major changes to URL-Encoded serializer and parser.
  - Logic for serializing and parsing URL-Encoded key-value pairs moved to <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/urlencoding/UrlEncodingSerializer.html" target="_blank">UrlEncodingSerializer</a> and <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/urlencoding/UrlEncodingParser.html" target="_blank">UrlEncodingParser</a> classes.
  - Logic for serializing and parsing URL-Encoded values moved to new <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/uon/UonSerializer.html" target="_blank">UonSerializer</a> and <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/uon/UonParser.html" target="_blank">UonParser</a> classes.

- Fix bug where `BeanRuntimeExceptions` weren't being thrown on subsequent calls to <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/BeanContext.html#getClassMeta(java.lang.Class)" target="_blank">BeanContext.getClassMeta(Class)</a>.

- Moved logic for `BeanContext.getPrimitiveDefault(Class)` to new <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/ClassMeta.html#getPrimitiveDefault()" target="_blank">ClassMeta.getPrimitiveDefault()</a> method for performance reasons.

- Fixed bug in ~~BeanContext.addTransforms(Class[])~~ that would cause filter order to get messed up.

- <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/ClassMeta.html#newInstance()" target="_blank">ClassMeta.newInstance()</a> can now create array instances.

- Fixed indentation bugs in <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/html/HtmlSerializer.html" target="_blank">HtmlSerializer</a>.

- Fixed issue in <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/html/HtmlSerializer.html" target="_blank">HtmlSerializer</a> where newlines were not being converted into line breaks.

- New <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/serializer/WriterSerializer.html#toString(java.lang.Object)" target="_blank">WriterSerializer.toString(Object)</a> method that's identical to the serialize method but throws `RuntimeExceptions` to make the serializer easier to use for debugging.

### Server

- Fixed major issue that prevented parsing URL-Encoded form posts into POJOs.
  Calling ~~HttpServlet.getParameter(String)~~ was forcing the underlying servlet code to process the HTTP body itself,
  preventing the `UrlEncodingSerializer` class from being able to parse the content.
  Updated code no longer inadvertantly calls this method.

- New ~~RestRequest.getQueryParameter(String)~~, ~~RestRequest.hasQueryParameter(String)~~, and ~~RestRequest.hasAnyQueryParameters(String[])~~ methods that only look for parameters in the URL query string to prevent loading and parsing of URL-Encoded form posts.

- New ~~@QParam~~ and ~~@HasQParam~~ annotations for accessing query parameters from the URL query string.

- `&plainText` parameter can now specify a false value.

- Removed properties parameters from ~~RestServlet.onPreCall(RestRequest)~~ and ~~RestServlet.onPostCall(RestRequest,RestResponse)~~ methods since the properties are already accessible through `RestRequest.getProperties()`.

- Added <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/uon/UonSerializer.html" target="_blank">UonSerializer</a> and <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/uon/UonParser.html" target="_blank">UonParser</a> to serializer and parser lists on  ~~BasicRestServlet~~ and  ~~RestServletJenaDefault~~.

### Client

- Moved to Apache HttpClient 4.3 to match Jazz 6.0.

- Renamed `RestResponseEntity` to  ~~RestRequestEntity~~.

- Improved performance on URL-Encoded form posts by serializing directly to output stream instead of serialized to string first.

- New methods on <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/rest/client/RestClient.html" target="_blank">RestClient</a> class that makes it easier to associate serializer and parser attributes with registered serializer and parser:
  - ~~RestClient.setProperty(String,Object)~~
  - ~~RestClient.setProperties(ObjectMap)~~
  - ~~RestClient.addNotBeanClasses(Class[])~~
  - ~~RestClient.addTransforms(Class[])~~
  - ~~RestClient.addImplClass(Class,Class)~~

- Renamed `RestClient.shutdown()` to <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/rest/client/RestClient.html#close()" target="_blank">RestClient.close()</a> to mirror change in Apache API.

### Samples

- New `CodeFormatterResource` for quickly formatting Java and XML code samples in Javadocs.

- New `UrlEncodedFormResource` for showing how to work with URL-Encoded form posts.