---
title: "Release 6.0.0"
---

# Release 6.0.0

**Date:** Oct 3, 2016

Juneau 6.0.0 is a major update.

The major change is rebranding from "Juno" to "Juneau" in preparation for donation to the Apache Foundation.

### org.apache.juneau

- Major changes around how serializer and parser class properties are defined to improve performance and
  concurrency.

  - New ~~PropertyStore~~ class - Used for creating context objects.
  - New <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/Context.html" target="_blank">Context</a> class - Read-only configurations for serializers and
    parsers.
  - New ~~Session~~ class - One-time use objects used by serializers and parsers.
  - All context context properties can now also be specified via system properties.

- Refactored serializer and parser APIs for more consistency between stream-based and character-based serializers
  and parsers.

  - More consistent handling of exceptions.
  - More consistent method declarations.

- Refactored var resolver API and added them to a new package - `org.apache.juneau.svl`.

  - Support for stream-based variables - <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/svl/StreamedVar.html" target="_blank">StreamedVar</a>.
  - Added support for context and session objects.

- Eliminated `"_class"` properties and replaced them with `"_type"` properties.
  The class properties were a little-used feature where we would serialize fully-qualified class names when the
  class type could not be inferred through reflection.
  It's been replaced with bean type names and bean dictionaries.
  Instead of class names, we serialize `"_type"` properties whose name is the type name defined on the bean being
  serialized.
  The parsers use a 'dictionary' of bean classes to resolve those names to actual bean classes.
  The following features were added to enable this support:

  - [@Bean(typeName)](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/annotation/Bean.html#typeName()) - Annotation that defines an
    identifying name for a bean class.
  - ~~BeanFilterBuilder.typeName(String)~~ - Programmatic equivalent to annotation above.
  - ~~BeanContext.BEAN_beanDictionary~~ - List of bean classes that make up the bean dictionary for lookup during
    parsing.
  -  ~~BEAN_beanTypePropertyName~~ - The overridable type property name. Default is `"_type"`.
  - ~~@BeanProperty(beanDictionary)~~ - Define a type dictionary for a particular bean property value.
    This overrides the value specified using ~~BeanContext.BEAN_beanDictionary~~.
  - ~~SerializerContext.SERIALIZER_addBeanTypeProperties~~ - Controls whether type properties are serialized.

  In addition, the [@Bean(typeName)](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/annotation/Bean.html#typeName()) value replaces
  the `@Xml(name)` annotation, and the `"type"` and `"_class"` attributes in the XML and HTML serializers have been
  standardized on a single `"_type"` attribute.

- Refactor bean filter support to use  ~~BeanFilterBuilder~~ class.
  Allows the `BeanFilter` class to use final fields.

- <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/msgpack/package-summary.html" target="_blank">MessagePack</a> support.

- Serializers can now serialize directly to <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/io/File.html" target="_blank">Files</a>.
  See [Serializer.serialize(Object,Object)](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/serializer/Serializer.html#serialize(Object,Object))

- Parsers can now parse directly from <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/io/File.html" target="_blank">Files</a> and other types.
  See [Parser.parse(Object,ClassMeta)](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/parser/Parser.html#parse(Object,ClassMeta))

- Parsers will automatically covert numeric input to POJOs that have numeric constructors (e.g. `java.util.Date`).

- Renamed 'Filters' to 'BeanFilters' and 'PojoSwaps'. Filters is just too overloaded a term.

- Internal utility classes moved to a new `org.apache.juneau.internal` package.
  These internal utility classes are not meant for consumption outside the Juneau codebase.

- New methods on <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/parser/Parser.html" target="_blank">Parser</a>:

  - `org.apache.juneau.parser.Parser.createSession(ObjectMap,Method,Object)`
  - ~~Parser.getMediaRanges()~~

- New methods on <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/serializer/Serializer.html" target="_blank">Serializer</a>:

  - `org.apache.juneau.serializer.Serializer.createSession(ObjectMap,Method)`
  - ~~Serializer.getMediaRanges()~~

- New [@Bean(sort)](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/annotation/Bean.html#sort()) annotation.

- Added `@Bean.properties` annotations on various DTO beans to make the ordering consistent between IBM and Oracle
  JVMs.
  IBM JVMs maintain the order of methods in a class, whereas Oracle JVMs do not.

- Serializers and parsers now automatically convert <a href="https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/17/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Class.html" target="_blank">Class</a> objects to readable
  names via ~~ClassUtils.getReadableClassName(Class)~~.

- Eliminated the `ClassFilter` class since it's no longer needed.

- Code and concurrency improvements to  ~~SerializerGroup~~ and  ~~ParserGroup~~.

- Various enhancements to ~~BeanContext.convertToType(Object,Class)~~.

- New properties on <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/html/HtmlSerializer.html" target="_blank">HtmlSerializer</a>:

  - ~~HtmlSerializerContext.HTML_detectLinksInStrings~~ - Automatically detect hyperlinks in strings.
  - ~~HtmlSerializerContext.HTML_lookForLabelParameters~~ - Specify anchor text by appending `&label=MyLabel` to
    URL.
  - ~~HtmlSerializerContext.HTML_labelParameter~~ - Specify what URL parameter to use as the anchor text label.
  - ~~HtmlSerializerContext.URI_ANCHOR~~ option for ~~HtmlSerializerContext.HTML_uriAnchorText~~.

- Removed generics from <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/BeanPropertyMeta.html" target="_blank">BeanPropertyMeta</a>.

- Introduced new classes to eliminate the references to language-specific metadata in the core metadata classes:

  -  ~~ClassMetaExtended~~ / ~~ClassMeta.getExtendedMeta(Class)~~
  -  ~~BeanMetaExtended~~ / ~~BeanMeta.getExtendedMeta(Class)~~
  -  ~~BeanPropertyMetaExtended~~ / ~~BeanPropertyMeta.getExtendedMeta(Class)~~

- Renamed `@Transform` annotation to ~~@Pojo~~ so that it can be used for various POJO-related behavior, not just
  associating transforms.

- Introduced <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/bean/swagger/package-summary.html" target="_blank">Swagger DTOs</a>.

### org.apache.juneau.rest

- OPTIONS pages replaced with Swagger documents.
  Lots of changes related to supporting Swagger.

  - Annotation name changes to conform to Swagger specs: `@Attr`→`@Path`, `@QParam`→`@Query`, `@Param`→`@FormData`,
    `@Content`→`@Body`
  - Eliminated `ResourceOptions` and related code.
  - New annotations and related methods:

    - ~~@RestResource(title)~~ / ~~RestInfoProvider.getTitle(RestRequest)~~
    - ~~@RestResource(description)~~ / ~~RestInfoProvider.getDescription(RestRequest)~~
    - ~~@RestResource(termsOfService)~~ / ~~RestInfoProvider.getTermsOfService(RestRequest)~~
    - ~~@RestResource(contact)~~ / ~~RestInfoProvider.getContact(RestRequest)~~
    - ~~@RestResource(license)~~ / ~~RestInfoProvider.getLicense(RestRequest)~~
    - ~~@RestResource(version)~~ / ~~RestInfoProvider.getVersion(RestRequest)~~
    - ~~@RestResource(tags)~~ / ~~RestInfoProvider.getTags(RestRequest)~~
    - ~~@RestResource(externalDocs)~~ / ~~RestInfoProvider.getExternalDocs(RestRequest)~~
    - ~~@RestMethod(summary)~~ / ~~ RestInfoProvider.getMethodSummary(String,RestRequest)~~
    - ~~@RestMethod(description)~~ /
      ~~RestInfoProvider.getMethodDescription(String,RestRequest)~~
    - ~~@RestMethod(externalDocs)~~
    - ~~@RestMethod(tags)~~
    - ~~@RestMethod(deprecated)~~
    - ~~@RestMethod(parameters)~~
    - ~~@RestMethod(responses)~~

- New ~~RestServletContext.paramFormat~~ context property.

- New/updated methods on  ~~RestServlet~~:

  - ~~RestServlet.createProperties()~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createBeanContext(ObjectMap,Class[],Class[])~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createBeanFilters()~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createPojoSwaps()~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createParsers(ObjectMap,Class[],Class[])~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createUrlEncodingSerializer(ObjectMap,Class[],Class[])~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createUrlEncodingParser(ObjectMap,Class[],Class[])~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createConverters(ObjectMap)~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createDefaultRequestHeaders(ObjectMap)~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createDefaultResponseHeaders(ObjectMap)~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createEncoders(ObjectMap)~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createGuards(ObjectMap)~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createMimetypesFileTypeMap(ObjectMap)~~
  - ~~RestServlet.createResponseHandlers(ObjectMap)~~

- New client-version annotations:

  - ~~RestResource.clientVersionHeader~~ - The name of the header used to identify the client version.
  - ~~RestMethod.clientVersion~~ - The client version range applied to a Java method.

### org.apache.juneau.rest.client

- Removed the `JazzRestClient` class.

- New method ~~RestClient.setClientVersion(String)~~.