---
title: "Release 7.2.1"
---

# Release 7.2.1

**Date:** Oct 23, 2018

This release contains mostly bug fixes.
Code changes have been made to preserve binary backwards compatibility with 7.1.0.

### juneau-marshall

- The ~~@JsonSchema~~ annotation has been merged with the ~~@Schema~~ annotation.

- Annotations typically used on bean properties (getters/setters/public fields) can now be used on private fields.
  This is inline with behavior on JPA-annotated beans.
  These include: `@Swap`, `@Html`, `@Xml`, `@BeanProperty`.

### juneau-rest-server

- Method-level annotations (e.g. `@RestMethod`) and parameter-level annotations (e.g. `@Query`) are now inheritable
  from parent classes and interfaces.
  This allows you to define  ~~RestcDualPurposeInterfaces~~.

- The `ReaderResource` and `StreamResource` classes have been moved to the `org.apache.juneau.http` package in
  [juneau-marshall](/docs/topics/JuneauMarshallBasics).
  This allows them to be used as return types in remote REST interfaces.
  A new  ~~ResolvingReaderResource~~ class has been added that includes the variable-resolving support since this
  relies on the [juneau-svl](/docs/topics/SimpleVariableLanguageBasics) package.

- The `RemoteInterfaceServlet` class has been renamed to
  <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/rest/remote/RrpcServlet.html" target="_blank">RrpcServlet</a>.

- `@RestMethod(name="PROXY")` has been changed to `@RestMethod(name="RRPC")`.

### juneau-rest-client

- The `RestClient.getRemoteInterface()` method has been renamed to
  <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/rest/client/RestClient.html#getRrpcInterface(java.lang.Class)" target="_blank">RestClient.getRrpcInterface(Class)</a>.

- Fixed a bug where `@RemoteMethod(path)` values containing `/` characters were erroneously being encoded.