---
title: "Release 8.0.0"
---

# Release 8.0.0

**Date:** Jan 01, 2019

This release cleans up deprecated APIs from the 7.2.0 release and makes significant modifications to the Microservice
APIs.

The project structures of the REST, Microservice, and Examples have been modified to fit new Spring Boot integration
support.

The structure is now as follows:

- `juneau-rest`
  - `juneau-rest-client`
  - `juneau-rest-server`
  - `juneau-rest-server-jaxrs`
  - `juneau-rest-server-rdf`
  - **`juneau-rest-server-springboot`** - New Spring Boot integration support classes.
- `juneau-microservice`
  - **`juneau-microservice-core`** - New. Contains base <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/microservice/Microservice.html" target="_blank">Microservice</a> class.
  - **`juneau-microservice-jetty`** - New. Contains new <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/microservice/jetty/JettyMicroservice.html" target="_blank">JettyMicroservice</a> class.
  - **`juneau-my-jetty-microservice`** - New. Template starter project for Jetty-based microservices.
  - **`juneau-my-springboot-microservice`** - New. Template starter project for Spring-Boot-based microservices.
- `juneau-examples`
  - `juneau-core`
  - **`juneau-microservice-rest`** - Now contains only servlet example classes. No Jetty configuration.
  - **`juneau-microservice-rest-jetty`** - Servlet examples deployed using Jetty.
  - **`juneau-microservice-rest-springboot`** - Servlet examples deployed using Spring Boot.

### juneau-svl

- New SVL variables:

  <tree>
  <node-0><java-class><a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/svl/vars/SubstringVar.html" target="_blank">SubstringVar</a></java-class></node-0>
  <node-0><java-class><a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/svl/vars/PatternExtractVar.html" target="_blank">PatternExtractVar</a></java-class></node-0>
  <node-0><java-class><a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/svl/vars/PatternReplaceVar.html" target="_blank">PatternReplaceVar</a></java-class></node-0>
  <node-0><java-class><a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/svl/vars/LenVar.html" target="_blank">LenVar</a></java-class></node-0>
  </tree>

### juneau-config

- New methods for setting a system default configuration:

  <tree>
  <node-0><java-class><a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/config/Config.html" target="_blank">Config</a></java-class></node-0>
  <node-1><java-method>[getSystemDefault()](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/config/Config.html#getSystemDefault())</java-method></node-1>
  <node-1><java-method>[setSystemDefault(Config)](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/config/Config.html#setSystemDefault(Config))</java-method></node-1>
  </tree>

- New classpath store:  ~~ConfigClasspathStore~~

- New API method:

  <tree>
  <node-0><java-class><a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/config/store/ConfigStore.html" target="_blank">ConfigStore</a></java-class></node-0>
  <node-1><java-method>[exists(String)](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/config/store/ConfigStore.html#exists(String))</java-method></node-1>
  </tree>

### juneau-rest-server

- New methods on  ~~RestServlet~~:

  <tree>
  <node-0><java-method><del>RestServlet.setRestResourceResolver(RestResourceResolver)</del></java-method></node-0>
  <node-0><java-method><del>RestServlet.getPath()</del></java-method></node-0>
  </tree>

- The registered resource resolver is now used to instantiate objects of classes defined via ~~@RestResource~~.
  This allows for any of those instances to be injectable beans.

### juneau-rest-server-springboot

- New project containing classes for making it easy to use Juneau with Spring Boot.

### juneau-microservice-core

- New project that consists of just the core <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/microservice/Microservice.html" target="_blank">Microservice</a> class and console support.

- The Microservice API has been revamped to use a builder-based approach to creating microservices.
  The new API is considerably more flexible in design and allows for the configuration and external files to be located in either the home directory or inside the jar classpath.

- If the microservice cannot find a config file in the home directory with the same name as the jar and the `juneau.configFile` system property is not found, it will try to find any file in the home directory that ends with `.cfg`.

- New <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/microservice/MicroserviceListener.html" target="_blank">MicroserviceListener</a> API for defining lifecycle event listeners.

- New <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/microservice/console/ConfigCommand.html" target="_blank">ConfigCommand</a> class for performing config queries and updates through the microservice console.

### juneau-microservice-jetty

- New <a href="/site/apidocs/org/apache/juneau/microservice/jetty/JettyMicroservice.html" target="_blank">JettyMicroservice</a> class replaces the previous `RestMicroservice`.

### juneau-my-jetty-microservice

- New template starter project for Jetty-based microservices.

### juneau-my-springboot-microservice

- Template starter project for Spring-Boot-based microservices.
- `app.json` and `Procfile` files for deploying examples into Heroku.
  Includes instructions.