---
title: "Release 5.0.0.13"
---

# Release 5.0.0.13

**Date:** Mar 14, 2013

Juno 5.0.0.13 is a minor update.

#### Core API changes

- New support for relative URIs.
  - URIs of the form `"foo/bar"` are interpreted as relative to the context root of the web application.
  - URIs of the form `"/foo/bar"` are interpreted as relative to the HTTP authority (e.g. `"http://myhost:9080"`).

- New `SerializerContext.SERIALIZER_uriContext` and `SerializerContext.SERIALIZER_uriAuthority` serializer properties for specifying values for relative URIs.

- New ~~URI @URI~~ annotation that allows you to specify classes and bean properties as URLs that aren't `java.net.URI` or `java.net.URL`.

- New ~~HtmlSerializer.HTML_uriAnchorText~~HTML serializer property for tailoring how anchor text is rendered.

- Renamed `BeanProperty#uri` annotation to `BeanProperty#beanUri` to make it clear that this property represents the URI of the bean itself instead of an arbitrary property containing a URI.

- Removed `BeanProperty#id` annotation.

- Improvements to ~~RestServlet~~ to automatically handle relative URIs in POJOs.
  - `SerializerContext.SERIALIZER_uriContext` property set by default to web app context root.
  - `SerializerContext.SERIALIZER_uriAuthority` property set by default to the request scheme+hostname+port.

- Fixed bug involving `Accept-Charset` header in Chrome that prevented HTML output from rendering correctly in that browser. `Accept-Charset` handling should now be fully W3C compliant.

