---
title: "Release 5.0.0.14"
---

# Release 5.0.0.14

**Date:** Mar 23, 2013

Juno 5.0.0.14 is a major update.
The biggest change is that the `RestSerializer`, `RestParser`, `RestSerializerGroup`, and `RestParserGroup` classes have
been eliminated entirely.
Instead, the existing [Serializer]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/serializer/Serializer.html), [Parser]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/parser/Parser.html), ~~SerializerGroup~~, and ~~ParserGroup~~ classes of the core API have been augmented to replace them.
Adoptions will be required if you have previously used these classes.

#### Core API changes

- New `org.apache.juneau.serializer` package.
  - Entirely reworked class hierarchy to make it easier to define new serializers.
  - New [WriterSerializer]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/serializer/WriterSerializer.html) base class for defining character-based serializers.
  - New [OutputStreamSerializer]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/serializer/OutputStreamSerializer.html) base class for defining byte-based serializers.
  - Updated ~~SerializerGroup~~ class with full support for RFC2616 `Accept-Content` headers.
  - Improved cloning support on serializers and serializer groups.

- New `org.apache.juneau.parser` package.
  - Entirely reworked class hierarchy to make it easier to define new parsers.
  - New [ReaderParser]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/parser/ReaderParser.html) base class for defining character-based parsers.
  - New [InputStreamParser]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/parser/InputStreamParser.html) base class for defining byte-based parsers.
  - Improved cloning support on parsers and parser groups.

- New `org.apache.juneau.swap` package.
  - Cleaner class structure.
  - Improved ~~BeanFilter~~ class for defining property filters on beans.
  - Improved ~~PojoQuery~~ class for defining filters on objects (previously called `ObjectFilter`).

- New `org.apache.juneau.encoders` package.
  - Defines API for [Encoders]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/encoders/Encoder.html) for enabling compression in REST servlets and clients.
  - Previously, gzip compression was enabled by default. This new API allows you to plug in your own compression algorithms.
  - New [GzipEncoder]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/encoders/GzipEncoder.html) class for enabling gzip compression.
  - New ~~EncoderGroup~~ class for managing multiple encoders and finding them based on RFC2616 `Accept-Encoding` header values.

- New `org.apache.juneau.plaintext` package.
  - New [PlainTextSerializer]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/plaintext/PlainTextSerializer.html) and [PlainTextParser]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/plaintext/PlainTextParser.html) classes for serializing/parsing text/plain content.

- New `org.apache.juneau.jso` package.
  - New ~~JsoSerializer~~ class for serializing `application/x-java-serialized-object` content.

- New `org.apache.juneau.soap` package.
  - New [SoapXmlSerializer]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/soap/SoapXmlSerializer.html) class for serializing `text/xml+soap` content.

- Improved cloning support on the [BeanContext]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanContext.html) class.
  - Better caching. Improved caching performance.

- `JsonMap` and `JsonList` changed to ~~ObjectMap~~ and ~~ObjectList~~ to better reflect that they're not limited to just JSON support.

- Renamed `PojoSwap` to ~~PojoQuery~~ to not confuse it with the new Filter API.

- Eliminated `org.apache.juneau.rest.serializers` and `org.apache.juneau.rest.parsers` packages.
  - All existing REST serializers and parsers merged into the core API.

- Simplified [RestClient]({{API_DOCS}}/oajrc/RestClient.html) API.
  - You can now only specify a single serializer or parser per client. This significantly simplifies the code.
  - Support for [Encoders]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/encoders/Encoder.html).

- Eliminated `RestCmdLine` (since it's essentially redundant with CURL).

