---
title: "Release 5.0.0.20"
---

# Release 5.0.0.20

**Date:** Apr 7, 2013

Juno 5.0.0.20 is a major update.
#### Core API changes

New Jena-based ~~RdfSerializer~~ for serializing POJOs to RDF/XML, RDF/XML-ABBREV, N-Triple, Turtle, and N3.
Serializes ANY POJOs to RDF, even simple objects and primitives.
New Jena-based ~~RdfParser~~ for parsing RDF/XML, RDF/XML-ABBREV, N3, Turtle, and N-Triple back into POJOs.
~~XmlSerializerContext.XML_autoDetectNamespaces~~default changed to true.
The old default value would cause XML with unmapped namespaces if you didn't manually specify them via the ~~XmlSerializerContext.XML_namespaces~~ annotation.
While setting the default to true is somewhat slower (since the serializer must crawl the POJO tree to find namespaces), the benefits of having it work out-of-the-box outweighs the performance concerns.
For developers concerned about performance, they can always change it back to false and specify the namespaces themselves.	
#### REST server API changes

Allow inheritance of ~~@RestResource~~ annotation.
Serializers, parsers, filters, properties , guards, and converters definitions are automatically inherited from parent classes and interfaces.
Enhancements to ~~RestMethod @RestMethod~~annotation:
New `RestMethod.filters()` annotation for defining POJO filters at the method level.
New ~~RestMethod.serializersInherit()~~and ~~RestMethod.parsersInherit()~~ annotations for controlling how serializers and parsers (and associated filters and properties) are inherited from the class.
This replaces the previous `addSerializers` and `addParsers` annotations.
New ~~RestServletJenaDefault~~ servlet that includes serialization/parsing support for all Jena-based serializers and parsers.
New ~~DefaultJenaProvider~~JAX-RS provider that includes serialization/parsing support for all Jena-based serializers and parsers.
Eliminated `RestServletChild` class.
It's redundant with the introduction of inheritable annotations.
New methods on ~~RestServlet~~:
- `RestServlet.createConfigFactory()`
- `RestServlet.createSerializers()`
- `RestServlet.createParsers()`

These augment the existing `getBeanContext()` / `getSerializers()` / `getParsers()` methods.		
#### REST client API changes

New `RestCall.setDateHeader(String,Object)` method for setting ISO8601 datetime headers.
