---
title: "Release 5.0.0.33"
---

# Release 5.0.0.33

**Date:** Oct 20, 2013

Juno 5.0.0.33 is a moderate update.

- Removed generic parameter from [WriterSerializer](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/serializer/WriterSerializer.html) class.
  - Many of the examples in the documentation were written as follows, which resulted in "unchecked" compile warnings:
    `WriterSerializer s = new JsonSerializer();`
    These compile warnings will now go away.

- New settings in BeanContext. These can be applied to all serializers/parsers.
  -  ~~BEAN_ignoreInvocationExceptionsOnGetters~~
  -  ~~BEAN_ignoreInvocationExceptionsOnSetters~~
  -  ~~BEAN_notBeanPackages_add~~
  -  ~~BEAN_notBeanPackages_remove~~

- Eliminated `addNotBeanClassPatterns(String...)` methods throughout API since these are now controlled by  ~~BEAN_notBeanPackages_add~~ /  ~~BEAN_notBeanPackages_remove~~ properties.

- New settings in `RestServletProperties`.
  - `RestServletProperties.REST_trimTrailingUriSlashes`
    Also removed `RestRequest.getRequestURI(boolean trimTrailingSlashes)` method which is now redundant with this property.
  - `RestServletProperties.REST_pathInfoBlankForNull`
    Also removed `RestRequest.getPathInfo(boolean returnBlankForNull)` method which is now redundant with this property.

- New JSON-Schema [JsonSchemaMap](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/dto/jsonschema/JsonSchemaMap.html) class for supporting linked schemas.

- Serializers will no longer throw an exception when `maxDepth` setting is reached, and will instead simply ignore content below the specified depth.
  While the old behavior was as-designed, the new behavior is more in-line with expected behavior.

- Added support for HTTP header `X-Response-Headers` to  ~~RestServlet~~.
  Allows you to specify one or more headers that should be returned on the response from the servlet.
  For example, to get a page to automatically refresh every 1 second, you can append the following to a URL:
  `?x-response-headers={Refresh=1}`

- Removed `HtmlDocSerializerContext.HTML_REFRESH` setting that added a Refresh meta tag to HTML documents, since this can now be controlled through `X-Response-Headers`.

- Small improvements to samples.
  - `PhotosResource` now includes a default entry.