---
title: "Release 5.1.0.19"
---

# Release 5.1.0.19

**Date:** Aug 15, 2015

Juno 5.1.0.19 is a minor update in terms of core functionality.

But it introduces a **Microservices** project for building REST microservices and docker containers.

#### Core

- Beans can now be serialized to and parsed from ~~ObjectMap ObjectMaps~~.
  See **Serializing to ObjectMaps** for details.

- New ~~ObjectMap.include(String[])~~ and ~~ObjectMap.exclude(String[])~~ methods.

- [@Html]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/html/annotation/Html.html) annotations can now be applied to bean properties.

- New ~~IOPipe~~ utility class.

- Behavior change on ~~StringVarResolver~~. `null` input now results in blank strings instead of `null`.

#### Client

- New ~~RestClient.doCallback(String)~~ method.

#### Server

- New [RestRequest.getHeaders()]({{API_DOCS}}/oajr/RestRequest.html#getHeaders()) method.

- New `RestResponse.getUnbufferedWriter()` method.

- Fixed bug that was preventing `x-response-headers` parameter from working correctly.

- Added [@Bean.properties]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/annotation/Bean.html#properties()) annotations to the various classes in `org.apache.juneau.rest.labels` so that the order of the bean properties are consistent on all JVMs.
  On IBM JVMs this is unnecessary because the order of the properties as defined in the class are stored in the bytecode.
  Other JVMs such as OpenJRE do not implement this feature causing the bean properties to be in random order.

- New ~~ResourceDescription.ResourceDescription(RestRequest,String,String)~~ constructor.