---
title: "Release 5.1.0.7"
---

# Release 5.1.0.7

**Date:** Oct 5, 2014

Juno 5.1.0.7 is a moderate update.

- Improved error handling.

- New ~~ParserContext.PARSER_debug~~ and ~~SerializerContext.SERIALIZER_debug~~ settings for logging additional information for debugging problems.

- New ~~SERIALIZER_ignoreRecursions~~ setting for explicitly ignoring recursions when serializing models.
  Previously, the `SERIALIZER_detectRecursions` setting did this but now it simply looks for recursions and throws
  exceptions when they occur.

- Improved handling of `StackOverflowErrors`.
  When `SERIALIZER_detectRecursions` is enabled, a useful error message is displayed showing the exact chain of objects
  that resulted in the stack overflow.

- Bug fixes in [ResultSetList]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/dto/ResultSetList.html) for Oracle and SQL Server.

- Serializers and parsers can now access HTTP request attributes, parameters, and headers through `SerializerContext.getProperties()` and `ParserContext.getProperties()`.

- Removed media-type and encoding attributes from  ~~SerializerContext~~ and  ~~ParserContext~~ since these are now available through context properties, and are typically not used.

- [XmlParser]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/XmlParser.html) now accepts `application/xml`.

- Improved handling of bean property serialization when multiple matching pojo filters for the bean property class exist.

- Improved concurrency on `BeanContext` class.

- Fixed bug in  ~~Traversable~~ that was causing it to be executed even if the servlet extra path info was empty.

- Fixed bug in  ~~Traversable~~ where it was not picking up filters and properties defined on REST Java methods.