---
title: "Release 5.1.0.8"
---

# Release 5.1.0.8

**Date:** Oct 25, 2014

Juno 5.1.0.8 is a moderate update, focused primarily on performance improvements.

- Improved performance on JSON and URL-Encoding parsers by approximately 50% on large data sets.
  - Rewrote [ParserReader](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/parser/ParserReader.html) class to handle it's own buffering.
    The change allowed several optimizations to be made when dealing with JSON and URL-Encoding text by avoiding char array
    copies.
  - Added a `estimatedSize` parameter to the [Parser](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/parser/Parser.html) parse methods to optimize buffering when the input size is known beforehand.

- Revamped the [BeanContext](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/BeanContext.html) API to perform better in multi-threaded environments.
  - Introduced a new `BeanPropertyStore` class that handles creation of [BeanContext](API_DOCS/org/apache/juneau/BeanContext.html) objects.
    This allows `BeanContext` objects to be considered immutable, and therefore cacheable/reusable by the framework.
    While this was technically possible to cache these objects beforehand, it relied on a locking mechanism to prevent bean
    contexts from being modified after being created.
    The new mechanism is much more straightforward.

- Modifications to the  ~~client~~ APIs to make it easier to work with custom Apache HTTP clients.
  - Added overridable ~~RestClient.createHttpClient()~~ to allow customized subclasses to construct customized HTTP clients.
  - Removed the `DefaultRestClient` class since it's now fully redundant with `RestClient`.
  - Added `RestClient.shutdown()` method for cleaning up the internal HTTP client when you're done using a REST client.