---
title: "Release 5.1.0.0"
---

# Release 5.1.0.0

**Date:** Jan 18, 2014

Juno 5.1.0.0 is a major update.

### Major changes

- Brand new REST client API that uses Apache HttpClient for HTTP communication.
  The new client API is simply a thin layer on top of `HttpClient` that performs serialization and parsing using Juno
  parsers but leaves all the details of the HTTP connection to the Apache code.
  See the  ~~client~~ package for details.

- New `org.apache.juneau.rest.client.jazz` package and `org.apache.juneau.rest.client.jazz.JazzRestClient` class for performing REST operations against Jazz servers.
  Includes improved support for FORM authentication, and better SSL certificate validation.

- Completely redesigned URL-Encoding support.
  See  ~~urlencoding~~ package for details.

- Changes to Parser API.
  - Removal of `ExtendedReaderParser` abstract class and moved methods into [ReaderParser]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/parser/ReaderParser.html) class.
  - Removal of `DataFormat` class from API since it was no longer necessary due to API change above.
  - Removal of `ParserStringReader` class.
    This was a reader optimized to work with `String` input.
    However, it could interfere with garbage collection of the original string object.
    Instead, the existing [ParserReader]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/parser/ParserReader.html) was enhanced to work well
    with `String` input, and tests show no significant performance differences.
  - New `org.apache.juneau.parser.Parser.parse(Object,int,ClassMeta)` convenience method added.

### Other changes

- Various new methods added to  ~~StringUtils~~ and  ~~ClassUtils~~.

- Improved support on ~~BeanContext.getClassMetaFromString(String)~~.
  Now supports resolving `"long[]"`, and so forth.

-  ~~ResourceDescription~~ name parameter is now automatically URL-encoded in links.

- [RestRequest]({{API_DOCS}}/oajr/RestRequest.html) now correctly handles cases involving URL-encoded characters in the path info portion of URLs (e.g. `http://host/contextRoot/foo%2Fbar`).

- Removed lazy-initialization that required locking in [ClassMeta]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/ClassMeta.html).

- New `BeanContext.setDefaultParser(ReaderParser)` method added for specifying a default parser to use in a bean context (used when converting beans to `Strings` using ~~BeanContext.convertToType(Object,Class)~~).
  Old behavior simply used the default JSON serializer in these cases.

- More consistent handling of exceptions across all parsers.

- Minor changes to [RestRequest]({{API_DOCS}}/oajr/RestRequest.html) class.
  - Changed the order of parameters on ~~RestRequest.getParameter(String,Class)~~.
  - Added `RestRequest.getMapParameter(String,Class,Class,Class)` and `RestRequest.getCollectionParameter(String,Class,Class)` methods.