---
title: "Release 5.1.0.3"
---

# Release 5.1.0.3

**Date:** Jun 28, 2014

Juno 5.1.0.3 is a moderate update.
###### Core API updates

Ability to detect and use non-public bean classes, getters/setters, and fields using the following new properties:
~~BeanContext.BEAN_beanConstructorVisibility~~- Control which bean constructors are visible to Juno.
~~BeanContext.BEAN_beanClassVisibility~~- Control which bean classes are interpreted as beans to Juno.
~~BeanContext.BEAN_beanFieldVisibility~~- Control which fields are visible to Juno as bean properties.
~~BeanContext.BEAN_beanMethodVisibility~~- Control which getters/setters are visible to Juno as bean properties.
Removed `BeanContext.INCLUDE_BEAN_FIELD_PROPERTIES` and `BeanContext.INCLUDE_BEAN_METHOD_PROPERTIES` properties, since ignoring fields and methods
can be accomplished by setting the appropriate properties above to \{@link oaj.Visibility#NONE NONE\}.
Also, the ~~@BeanProperty~~ annotation can now be used on non-public fields/getters/setters to override
the default behavior defined by the `VISIBILITY` properties identified above.  This is a convenient way of identifying protected or
private fields or methods as bean properties.  Previously, you could only identify public fields/getters/setters using this annotation.
New ~~BeanContext.BEAN_useJavaBeanIntrospector~~ property that lets Juno use the Java bean `Introspector`
class to determine bean properties.  In the previous release, the method for determining bean properties was a mixture of Juno-based and Introspector-based.
Now it's either pure Juno-based or pure Introspector-based.  The result is considerably cleaner code and consistent behavior.
New \{@link oaj.annotation.BeanIgnore @BeanIgnore\} annotation.  Replaces the previous ~~@BeanProperty(hidden=true)~~annotation
for ignoring bean properties.  Can also be used on classes that look like beans so that they're not treated as beans.
Support for parsing into non-static member classes.  This applies to all parsers.
New \{@link oaj.json.annotation.Json#wrapperAttr() @Json(wrapperAttr)\}	annotation that automatically wraps beans and objects in a wrapper
attribute when serializing to or parsing from JSON.
Changed the default ordering of bean properties to be in parent-to-child class order.
New ~~BeanFilter.readProperty(Object,String,Object) readProperty()~~and ~~BeanFilter.writeProperty(Object,String,Object) writeProperty()~~
methods added to ~~BeanFilter~~class to allow individualized serialization and parsing behavior on a class-by-class basis.
Eliminated previous restriction where bean subtype attributes had to be listed first in JSON objects when using the ~~Bean.subTypeProperty()~~annotation.
The previous behavior was not strictly JSON-compliant since JSON objects are supposed to consist of unordered lists of key/value pairs.
While targeted for JSON, the restriction is also lifted for all other parsers.  	
New fluent-style \{@link oaj.BeanMap#load(String) BeanMap.load()\} methods for initializing bean maps.
\{@link oaj.html.HtmlDocSerializer\} will now embed the data portion of the output in a ` id='data'>` element to make it easier to extract the data portion of the page in Javascript in browsers.
###### REST Server API updates

New ~~RestRequest.getJavaMethod()~~method for getting access to the method used to handle a request.
Useful for accessing the method name or annotations during requests, such as in calls to ~~RestGuard.guard(RestRequest,RestResponse)~~.
Fixed bug when using Jetty where you tried to read text input after a header was written.
Added new string variables $A\{...\} (request attributes) and $P\{...\} (request parameters) to `RestServlet.createRequestVarResolver(RestRequest)`.
