---
title: "Release 6.1.0"
---

# Release 6.1.0

**Date:** Feb 25, 2017

Juneau 6.1.0 is a major update.
In particular, this release cleans up the [BeanContext]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanContext.html) API to match
the ~~PropertyStore~~/[Context]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/Context.html)/~~Session~~ paradigm
previously used in the serializer and parser APIs.
It also makes several improvements to the HTML and XML serialization support and introduces HTML5 DTO beans.

#### org.apache.juneau

Improvements to XML serialization support.
New supported XML formats:
[ATTRS()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/annotation/XmlFormat.html#ATTRS) format can now be applied to bean classes to have all bean properties serialized
as attributes instead of elements by default.
[ELEMENT()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/annotation/XmlFormat.html#ELEMENT) format can now be applied to bean properties to override the [ATTRS()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/annotation/XmlFormat.html#ATTRS)
setting above on specific bean properties.
New [ELEMENTS()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/annotation/XmlFormat.html#ELEMENTS) format can be applied to a bean property of type array/Collection to represent the child elements.
New [MIXED()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/annotation/XmlFormat.html#MIXED) format can be applied to a bean property of type array/Collection to represent mixed content (text + child elements).
New [MIXED_PWS()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/annotation/XmlFormat.html#MIXED_PWS) format.  Identical to MIXED except preserves whitespace.
New [TEXT()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/annotation/XmlFormat.html#TEXT) format can be applied to a bean property of a single object to represent a text node as a child.
New [TEXT_PWS()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/annotation/XmlFormat.html#TEXT_PWS) format.  Identical to TEXT except preserves whitespace.
New [XMLTEXT()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/annotation/XmlFormat.html#XMLTEXT) format that's identical to [TEXT()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/annotation/XmlFormat.html#TEXT) except 
XML content is not escaped and serialized directly as the child content.  The parser will reconvert this to the original XML text during parsing.
New support methodology and other improvements to ~~xml~~ documentation.
Eliminated unnecessary  elements.
Eliminated ~~XmlContentHandler~~ class.
Parser efficiency improvements through reuse of string builders.
Reworked and simplified the default XML serializers.  The [DEFAULT()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/XmlSerializer.html#DEFAULT) serializer now has namespaces disabled,
and [DEFAULT_NS()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/xml/XmlSerializer.html#DEFAULT_NS) has namespaces enabled.  The 'XML-JSON' serializers have been eliminated.
Eliminated the `addJsonTypeAttrs` and `addJsonStringTypeAttrs` settings.
Namespace support is now disabled by default.
Significant modifications and improvements to HTML serialization support.
Parser converted from `XMLEventReader`-based to `XMLStreamReader`.
Eliminated many unnecessary type tags and  elements and improved the readable layout.  
The new format is much leaner.
New exhaustive support methodology section added to ~~html~~ documentation.
New HTML5 DTO support:  ~~html5~~.
[BeanContext]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanContext.html) class split into separate [BeanContext]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanContext.html) and [BeanSession]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanSession.html) classes.
Session object meant to be single-use that can be discarded after use and contains session-level object cache and overridable Locale and TimeZone.
~~SerializerContext~~ and ~~ParserContext~~
now extend directly from [BeanContext]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanContext.html).
[SerializerSession]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/serializer/SerializerSession.html) and [ParserSession]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/parser/ParserSession.html)
now extend directly from [BeanSession]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanSession.html).
New settings in [BeanContext]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanContext.html):
~~BEAN_debug~~ - Debug setting.  Replaces individual debug properties in the serializer and parser contexts.
~~BEAN_locale~~ - Specifies a default locale at the context level.
~~BEAN_timeZone~~ - Specifies a default timezone at the context level.
~~BEAN_mediaType~~ - Specifies a default media type at the context level.
Improvements to Parser class:  
Simplified the parse methods (e.g. `parseMap()`, `parseCollection()`)
by replacing them with two simple methods: 
[parse()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/parser/Parser.html#parse(Object,Class)) - Normal method.
[parse()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/parser/Parser.html#parse(Object,Type,Type...)) - Method for parsing into parameterized maps and collections.
Using these methods, you can construct arbitrarily complex objects consisting of maps and collections.
You could do this before but it required constructing a `ClassMeta` object.  
For example:

```text
// Old way:
ClassMeta cm = parser.getMapClassMeta(
HashMap.class, 
String.class, 
parser.getCollectionClassMeta(
LinkedList.class, 
MyBean.class
)
);
Map> map = (Map>)parser.parse(input, cm);	
// New way:
Map> map = parser.parse(input, HashMap.class, String.class, LinkedList.class, MyBean.class);
```

Arbitrarily-complex parameterized maps and collections can now be parsed without the need for creating intermediate `ClassMeta` objects.
No need for casting anymore if you were using the old `parseMap()` and `parseCollection()` methods!
Changes allow me to eliminate `BeanContext.normalizeClassMeta()` method.
Convenience methods added for setting parser properties:

```text
// Old way:
new JsonParser().setProperty(PARSER_strict, true).setProperty(BEAN_locale, mylocale);
// New way:
new JsonParser().setStrict(true).setLocale(mylocale);
```

Improvements to Serializer class:
Convenience methods added for setting serializer properties:

```text
// Old way:
new JsonSerializer().setProperty(JSON_simpleMode, true).setProperty(SERIALIZER_quoteChar, '"');
// New way:
new JsonSerializer().setSimpleMode(true).setQuoteChar('"');
```

Simplified ~~PojoSwap~~ class.  Now just two methods:
~~PojoSwap.swap(BeanSession,Object)~~
~~PojoSwap.unswap(BeanSession,Object,ClassMeta)~~
General code improvements made to [ClassMeta]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/ClassMeta.html) class.
All fields are now final which should improve overall performance.
Replaced support for `toObjectMap()` and `fromObjectMap()/T(ObjectMap)` methods with
generalized `swap(BeanSession)`/`unswap(BeanSession,X)`/`T(BeanSession,X)` methods.
See new section Swap methods for information.
Session-level media type now available through [getMediaType()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanSession.html#getMediaType()) method.
Allows for swaps and serializer/parser behavior to be tailored to individual media types.
Several new [Calendar]({{API_DOCS}}/java/util/Calendar.html) and [Date]({{API_DOCS}}/java/util/Date.html) swaps:
~~ToString~~,~~ToString~~ - To [Strings]({{API_DOCS}}/java/lang/String.html) using the `Date.toString()` method.
~~ISO8601DT~~,~~ISO8601DT~~ - To ISO8601 date-time strings.
~~ISO8601DTZ~~,~~ISO8601DTZ~~ - Same as ISO8601DT, except always serializes in GMT.
~~ISO8601DTP~~,~~ISO8601DTP~~ - Same as ISO8601DT except with millisecond precision.
~~ISO8601DTPZ~~,~~ISO8601DTPZ~~ - Same as ISO8601DTZ except with millisecond precision.
~~RFC2822DT~~,~~RFC2822DT~~ - To RFC2822 date-time strings.
~~RFC2822DTZ~~,~~RFC2822DTZ~~ - Same as RFC2822DT, except always serializes in GMT.
~~RFC2822D~~,~~RFC2822D~~ - To RFC2822 date strings.
~~DateTimeSimple~~,~~DateTimeSimple~~ - To simple "yyyy/MM/dd HH:mm:ss" date-time strings.
~~DateSimple~~,~~DateSimple~~ - To simple "yyyy/MM/dd" date strings.
~~TimeSimple~~,~~TimeSimple~~ - To simple "HH:mm:ss" time strings.
~~DateFull~~,~~DateFull~~ - To [FULL()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#FULL) date strings.
~~DateLong~~,~~DateLong~~- To [LONG()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#LONG) date strings.
~~DateMedium~~,~~DateMedium~~ - To [MEDIUM()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#MEDIUM) date strings.
~~DateShort~~,~~DateShort~~- To [SHORT()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#SHORT) date strings.
~~TimeFull~~,~~TimeFull~~ - To [FULL()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#FULL) time strings.
~~TimeLong~~,~~TimeLong~~- To [LONG()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#LONG) time strings.
~~TimeMedium~~,~~TimeMedium~~ - To [MEDIUM()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#MEDIUM) time strings.
~~TimeShort~~,~~TimeShort~~- To [SHORT()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#SHORT) time strings.
~~DateTimeFull~~,~~DateTimeFull~~ - To [FULL()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#FULL) date-time strings.
~~DateTimeLong~~,~~DateTimeLong~~- To [LONG()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#LONG) date-time strings.
~~DateTimeMedium~~,~~DateTimeMedium~~ - To [MEDIUM()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#MEDIUM) date-time strings.
~~DateTimeShort~~,~~DateTimeShort~~- To [SHORT()]({{API_DOCS}}/java/text/DateFormat.html#SHORT) date-time strings.
New method ~~SerializerGroup.getSerializerMatch(String)~~that returns the matched serializer and media type.
New method ~~ParserGroup.getParserMatch(String)~~that returns the matched parser and media type.
New method ~~EncoderGroup.getEncoderMatch(String)~~that returns the matched encoder and encoding.
General improvements to Bean Dictionary support.
New [BeanDictionaryList]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanDictionaryList.html) class can be used for defining reusable sets of bean dictionaries consisting
of classes annotated with [@Bean(typeName)]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/annotation/Bean.html#typeName()).
New [BeanDictionaryMap]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanDictionaryMap.html) class can be used for defining reusable sets of bean dictionaries consisting
of classes not annotated with [@Bean(typeName)]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/annotation/Bean.html#typeName()).
New ~~@Bean(beanDictionary)~~ annotation.
Removed restriction on getters and setters to be prefixed with "getX/setX/isX" if a ~~@BeanProperty(name)~~ annotation is used.
Improvements to ATOM DTO:
New [AtomBuilder]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/dto/atom/AtomBuilder.html) class.
New setter method names for a better fluent design.
Updated ~~atom~~ documentation.
New ~~MapSwap~~ and ~~StringSwap~~ classes.
New [println()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/serializer/WriterSerializer.html#println(Object)) method.  Useful for debugging purposes.
New [getClassMeta()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanContext.html#getClassMeta(Type,Type...)) and [getClassMeta()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/BeanSession.html#getClassMeta(Type,Type...))
methods for retrieving Map and Collection class metas.  
Replaces the various `getMapClassMeta()`/`getCollectionClassMeta()` methods.  
New section added to this document:	Juneau Data Transfer Objects (org.apache.juneau.dto)
Modified the UON specification to work with mixed content.
The new specification is considerably cleaner and eliminates the need for separate normal/simple modes.
It also allows for arbitrary whitespace to be added to the output without any confusion.
Eliminated the `UonParser.DEFAULT_WS_AWARE` and `UrlEncodingParser.DEFAULT_WS_AWARE` parsers.
The normal [DEFAULT()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/uon/UonParser.html#DEFAULT) and [DEFAULT()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/urlencoding/UrlEncodingParser.html#DEFAULT) parsers will now handle whitespace.
Eliminated the `UonParserContext.UON_whitespaceAware` configuration setting.
Eliminated the `UonSerializer.DEFAULT_SIMPLE`, `UonSerializer.DEFAULT_SIMPLE_ENCODING`
and `UrlEncodingSerializer.DEFAULT_SIMPLE`
serializers since there is no separate simple mode anymore.
Eliminated the `UonParserContext.UON_simpleMode` configuration setting.
Added new ~~OutputStreamSerializer.serializeToHex(Object)~~method. 
Useful mostly for testing purposes.
Equivalently, the [parse()]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/parser/InputStreamParser.html#parse(Object,Class)) method can now 
read the output from this method.
Eliminated the `@Bean(subTypeProperty)` and `@Bean(subTypes)` annotations
and replaced them with the ability to define subtypes using the existing ~~@Bean(beanDictionary)~~
annotation on parent classes and interfaces.
This has the added benefit of simplifying the overall code.
The ~~SerializerContext.SERIALIZER_addBeanTypeProperties~~setting is now enabled by default.
Combined the `SERIALIZER_addIndentation`/`JSON_addWhitespace`/`UON_addWhitespace`
properties into a single ~~SerializerContext.SERIALIZER_useWhitespace~~setting.

#### org.apache.juneau.rest

[RestRequest]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/RestRequest.html) now passes locale and timezone to serializers/parsers/transforms.
~~RestRequest.getTimeZone()~~method.
Standardized the following methods in [RestRequest]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/RestRequest.html) to remove dependency on `ClassMeta`
objects and eliminate the need for casts:
~~RestRequest.getHeader(String,Class)~~
~~RestRequest.getHeader(String,Object,Class)~~
~~ RestRequest.getHeader(String,Type,Type...)~~
~~RestRequest.getQueryParameter(String,Class)~~
~~RestRequest.getQueryParameter(String,Object,Class)~~
~~ RestRequest.getQueryParameter(String,Type,Type...)~~
~~ RestRequest.getQueryParameter(String,Object,Type,Type...)~~
~~RestRequest.getQueryParameters(String,Class)~~
~~ RestRequest.getQueryParameters(String,Type,Type...)~~
~~RestRequest.getFormDataParameter(String,Class)~~
~~RestRequest.getFormDataParameter(String,Object,Class)~~
~~RestRequest.getFormDataParameters(String,Class)~~
~~ RestRequest.getFormDataParameter(String,Type,Type...)~~
~~ RestRequest.getFormDataParameters(String,Type,Type...)~~
~~RestRequest.getPathParameter(String,Class)~~
~~ RestRequest.getPathParameter(String,Type,Type...)~~
~~RestRequest.getBody(Class)~~
~~ RestRequest.getBody(Type,Type...)~~
New methods on ~~NameValuePairs~~
Fixed issue where whitespace was not added to UON/URL-Encoding output when `&plainText=true` specified.
