---
title: "Release 7.2.1"
---

# Release 7.2.1

**Date:** Oct 23, 2018

This release contains mostly bug fixes.
Code changes have been made to preserve binary backwards compatibility with 7.1.0.
#### juneau-marshall

The ~~@JsonSchema~~ annotation has been merged with the ~~@Schema~~ annotation.
Annotations typically used on bean properties (getters/setters/public fields) can now be used on private fields.
This is inline with behavior on JPA-annotated beans.
These include:  @Swap, @Html, @Xml, @BeanProperty.
#### juneau-rest-server

Method-level annotations (e.g. @RestMethod) and parameter-level annotations (e.g. @Query) are now inheritable
from parent classes and interfaces. 
This allows you to define ~~RestcDualPurposeInterfaces~~.
The `ReaderResource` and `StreamResource` classes have been moved to the `org.apache.juneau.http`
package in `juneau-marshall`.  This allows them to be used as return types in remote REST interfaces.
A new ~~ResolvingReaderResource~~ class has been added that includes the variable-resolving support since
this relies on the `juneau-svl` package.
The `RemoteInterfaceServlet` class has been renamed to \{@link oajr.remote.RrpcServlet\}.
`@RestMethod(name="PROXY")` has been changed to `@RestMethod(name="RRPC")`.
#### juneau-rest-client

The `RestClient.getRemoteInterface()` method has been renamed to \{@link oajrc.RestClient#getRrpcInterface(Class)\}.
Fixed a bug where `@RemoteMethod(path)` values containing '/' characters were erroneously being encoded.
