---
title: "Release 8.1.1"
---

# Release 8.1.1

**Date:** Sept 20, 2019

Juneau 8.1.1 is a minor release but introduces some new features/modifications.

#### juneau-marshall

Support for serializing/parsing [Optional]({{API_DOCS}}/java/util/Optional.html) objects and bean properties.
Fixed a bug in the parsers where the generic subtype of a complex bean property type involving both collections and arrays
was not being found.  (e.g. `List[]`)
New packages of HTTP response/exceptions beans from `juneau-rest-server` bundle and REST proxy annotations from `juneau-rest-client` 
so that they can be used when building REST proxy interfaces while only pulling in the marshall bundle.
[response]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/response.html)
~~exception~~
[remote]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/remote.html)
These replace the `org.apache.juneau.rest.response`, `org.apache.juneau.rest.exception`, and `org.apache.juneau.rest.client.remote` packages.
Defaulting SVL variables now won't ignore additional parameters.
"$S\{Foo,bar,baz\}" used to default to "bar" but now will default to "bar,baz".
Ranking support has been added to all @XConfig annotations.
This allows you to override the normal precedence of application of config annotations on class and method hierarchies.

#### juneau-rest-server

Support for [Optional]({{API_DOCS}}/java/util/Optional.html) on method parameters annotated with [Header]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/annotation/Header.html), [FormData]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/annotation/FormData.html),  
[Query]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/annotation/Query.html), [Path]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/annotation/Path.html).
Fixed issue where ~~ oajr.annotation.RestMethod.debug() RestMethod.debug()~~ annotation wasn't resulting
in the HTTP request being logged.
~~RestException~~ has been deprecated and replaced by ~~HttpException~~.
Resolved issue where parameterized types on @RestMethod-annotated method parameters of Spring beans.
This is due to Spring relying on CGLIB for runtime-recompilation of beans that results in loss of parameterized-type
information.  
In the following example, the `beans` parameter would resolve as an unparameterized `List`
which would typically result in getting a `List and subsequent ClassCastExceptions`.   

```text
@RestMethod
public void doFoo(@Body List beans) {...}
```

The fix involves resolving the original bean class for resolving parameterized type while leaving
method invocation on the proxy method so as not to bypass Spring features.
New methods on ~~BasicRest~~ to provide feature-parity with ~~RestServlet~~:

<tree>
<java-class>~~BasicRest~~</java-class>
<node-1><javac-method>~~BasicRest.getContext() getContext()~~</javac-method></node-1>
<node-1><javac-method>~~BasicRest.getRequest() getRequest()~~</javac-method></node-1>
<node-1><javac-method>~~BasicRest.getResponse() getResponse()~~</javac-method></node-1>
<node-1><javac-method>~~BasicRest.log(String) log(String)~~</javac-method></node-1>
<node-1><javac-method>~~BasicRest.log(String,Throwable) log(String,Throwable)~~</javac-method></node-1>
<node-1><javac-method>~~BasicRest.log(Level,String,Object[]) log(Level,String,Object[])~~</javac-method></node-1>
<node-1><javac-method>~~BasicRest.logObjects(Level,String,Object[])~~</javac-method></node-1>
<node-1><javac-method>~~BasicRest.log(Level,Throwable,String,Object[]) log(Level,Throwable,String,Object[])~~</javac-method></node-1>
</tree>

The ~~@RestResource(staticFiles)~~ annotation now supports absolute path locations and multiple mappings:

```text
// Resolves static files in root package "htdocs" or working directory "htdocs", and then relative package "htdocs".
@RestResource(staticFiles="htdocs:/htdocsfolder,htdocs:htdocs.package")
```

Fixed a bug in ~~@RestResource(staticFiles)~~where the order of lookup between parent and child resources
was wrong.

#### juneau-rest-client

Removed the dependency on the `juneau-rest-server` module.  
Allows the client API to be used without pulling in all the javax.servlet and server dependencies.

#### juneau-examples

The PetStore application has been moved to a separate Git repository.
[GitHub Repo](https://github.com/apache/juneau-petstore)
[Documentation](http://juneau.apache.org/index.html#petstore.html)
