---
title: "Release 9.0.0"
---

# Release 9.0.0

**Date:** TBD

Juneau 9.0.0 is a major release.  Deprecated APIs that have been accumulating over time have been removed.
Major changes include:
The code has undergone significant refactoring to ease maintainability and improve overall performance.
Configuration properties have been removed entirely.  They have been replaced with a standard builder-based
architecture.  In addition to making the code more maintainable, it also improves performance when
creating new serializers/parsers/rest clients (and others).
REST servlets now seemlessly integrate with Spring Boot.  

#### juneau-marshall

Eliminated the various `@XConfig(applyX=\{...\})` annotations and replaced them with the ability
to apply targeted annotations directly to configuration classes and methods (such as REST classes/methods).

```text
|	@Rest(...)
|	@Bean(on="MyBean1,MyBean2",sort=true)
|	@UrlEncoding(onClass=MyList.class,expandedParams=true)
|	public class MyRestClass {
|		
|		@RestOp(...)
|		@Bean(on="MyBean1,MyBean2",sort=false)
|		@UrlEncoding(onClass=MyList.class,expandedParams=false)
|		public Object myRestMethod() { ... }
|	}
```

[JSON 5]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/marshaller/Json5.html) support.
New [@Marshalled]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/annotation/Marshalled.html) annotation for non-bean classes.
New [@BeanConfig(ignoreUnknownEnumValues)]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/annotation/BeanConfig.html#ignoreUnknownEnumValues()) annotation and support for ignoring
unknown enum values during parsing.
Java Serialized Object marshalling support has been removed entirely due to security risks with usage (better safe than sorry).

#### juneau-rest-common

New module containing the common REST classes/annotations uses by both the client and server APIs.
These were previously contained within `juneau-marshall`.
Significant refactoring of the classes in the [http]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http.html) package and subpackages.  Attempts were made to make classes as natural
extensions to the Apache HttpComponents APIs.  Significant new functionality here.
`@RemoteMethod` annotation has been replaced with the following:
[RemoteOp]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/remote/RemoteOp.html)
[RemoteGet]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/remote/RemoteGet.html)
[RemotePut]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/remote/RemotePut.html)
[RemotePatch]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/remote/RemotePatch.html)
[RemotePost]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/remote/RemotePost.html)
[RemoteDelete]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/http/remote/RemoteDelete.html)

#### juneau-rest-server

Significant refactoring done to allow for many extensible aspects of the API to be performed through injected beans
in Spring.  These include logging, debugging, REST method arg types, static files, file finders, swagger creators, thrown stores, response
processors, serializers/parsers, JSON schema generators, statistics gathering stores, and default request attributes/headers and response
headers.
`@RestMethod` annotation has been replaced with the following:
[RestOp]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/annotation/RestOp.html)
[RestGet]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/annotation/RestGet.html)
[RestPut]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/annotation/RestPut.html)
[RestPatch]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/annotation/RestPatch.html)
[RestPost]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/annotation/RestPost.html)
[RestDelete]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/annotation/RestDelete.html)
Defining REST resources with predefined marshalling support is now much simpler.  You can now extend from a basic REST servlet/object.

```text
|	// A root resource that supports JSON/HTML marshalling.
|	public class MyRootResources extends BasicRestServletGroup  { ... }
|	
|	// A child resource that supports all available marshalling.
|	public class MyChildResource extends BasicRestObject { ... }
```

[BasicRestServlet]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/servlet/BasicRestServlet.html)
[BasicRestServletGroup]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/servlet/BasicRestServletGroup.html)
[BasicRestObject]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/servlet/BasicRestObject.html)
[BasicRestObjectGroup]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/servlet/BasicRestObjectGroup.html)

#### juneau-dto

Addition of OpenAPI 3.0 ([openapi3]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/dto/openapi3.html) package).

#### juneau-rest-server-springboot

The requirement for using `JuneauRestInitializer` during App initialization to use bean injection has been eliminated.
Instead, root resources should simply extend from [BasicSpringRestServlet]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/springboot/BasicSpringRestServlet.html) and [BasicSpringRestServletGroup]({{API_DOCS}}/org/apache/juneau/rest/springboot/BasicSpringRestServletGroup.html).
These will automatically hook into the Spring Boot framework for resolution of REST children and various extension beans added
to the REST API framework.

#### juneau-rest-client

While the general usage pattern stays the same, the REST client code has undergone significant rewriting.  It is now more inline
as an extension of the Apache HttpClient library.  Much new functionality such as support for fluent assertions has been added.

```java
|	// Create a basic REST client with JSON support and download a bean.
|	MyBean bean = RestClient.create()
|		.json5()
|		.build()
|		.get(URI)
|		.run()
|		.assertStatus().asCode().is(200)
|		.assertHeader("Content-Type").matchesSimple("application/json*")
|		.getContent().as(MyBean.class);
```

#### juneau-rest-mock

Entirely rewritten.  Changes too many to list.
