---
title: "Overview"
---

##### About
Apache Juneau™ is a single cohesive Java ecosystem for marshalling Java objects to a wide variety of
language types and creating annotation-based REST end-to-end server and client APIs.
The Juneau ecosystem consists of the following parts:
CategoryMaven ArtifactsDescriptionPrereqs
juneau-core
juneau-marshall
- Serializers and parsers for JSON (various flavors), XML, HTML, URL-Encoding, UON, OpenAPI, PlainText, CSV, SOAP, and MessagePack.
- Apache HttpCore 4.4
juneau-marshall-rdf
- Serializers and parsers for RDF/XML (various flavors), N3, NTriple, and Turtle.
- Apache HttpCore 4.4
- Apache Jena 2.7.1
juneau-dto
- Data Transfer Objects for HTML5, Atom, Cognos, JSON-Schema, and Swagger
- *None*
juneau-config
- Configuration File API
- *None*
juneau-assertions
- Fluent-style assertions API
- *None*
juneau-rest
juneau-rest-common
- REST APIs common to client and server side.
- Apache HttpCore 4.4
juneau-rest-server
- REST Servlet API
- Servlet 3.1+
juneau-rest-server-springboot
- REST Spring Boot integration
- Spring Boot 2.0+
juneau-rest-client
- REST Client API
- Apache HttpClient 4.5
juneau-rest-mock
- REST Testing API
- Apache HttpClient 4.5
my-springboot-microservice
- Spring Boot developer template
- Spring Boot 2.0+
juneau-examples
juneau-examples-core
- Core code examples
juneau-examples-rest
- REST code examples
juneau-all
`juneau-all`
Combination of the following:
- juneau-marshall
- juneau-dto
- juneau-config
- juneau-assertions
- juneau-rest-common
- juneau-rest-server
- juneau-rest-client
- Servlet 3.1+
- Apache HttpClient 4.5+
The current version of Juneau is `9.0.1`.
The easiest way to pull in the library is through the following maven dependency:
```xml
&lt;dependency&gt;
    &lt;groupId&gt;org.apache.juneau&lt;/groupId&gt;
    &lt;artifactId&gt;juneau-all&lt;/artifactId&gt;
    &lt;version&gt;9.0.1&lt;/version&gt;
&lt;/dependency&gt;
```
If you would like to work with the bleeding-edge code, you can access the `9.0.2-SNAPSHOT`
version through the following repository:
```xml
&lt;pluginRepositories&gt;
    &lt;pluginRepository&gt;
        &lt;id&gt;apache.snapshots&lt;/id&gt;
        &lt;url&gt;http://repository.apache.org/snapshots/&lt;/url&gt;
        &lt;snapshots&gt;
            &lt;enabled&gt;true&lt;/enabled&gt;
            &lt;updatePolicy&gt;always&lt;/updatePolicy&gt;
        &lt;/snapshots&gt;
    &lt;/pluginRepository&gt;
&lt;/pluginRepositories&gt;
```
Each of the components are also packaged as stand-alone OSGi modules.
##### Features
-
Fast memory-efficient serialization.
-
Fast, safe, memory-efficient parsing.  Parsers are not susceptible to deserialization attacks.
-
KISS is our mantra!  No auto-wiring.  No code generation.  No dependency injection.  Just add it to your classpath and use it.  Extremely simple unit testing!
-
Enjoyable to use
-
Tiny - ~1MB
-
Exhaustively tested
-
Lots of up-to-date documentation and examples
-
Minimal library dependencies making it ideal for use in uber-jars.
-
Built on top of Servlet and Apache HttpClient APIs that allow you to use the newest HTTP/2 features
such as request/response multiplexing and server push.
-
All modules work with Java 8 through at least 18.