---
title: "Overview"
---

The `juneau-config` library contains a powerful API for creating and using INI-style config files.
##### Example configuration file:
```ini
# A set of entries
[Section1]

# An integer
key1 = 1

# A boolean
key2 = true

# An array
key3 = 1,2,3

# A POJO
key4 = http://bar
```
Config files are accessed through the [Config](../apidocs/org/apache/juneau/config/Config.html) class which
are created through the [Builder](../apidocs/org/apache/juneau/config/Config/Builder.html) class.
Builder creator methods are provided on the `Config` class:
```java
// Create a Config object
Config config = Config.create().name("MyConfig.cfg").build();

// Shortcut
Config config = Config.create("MyConfig.cfg").build();
```
Once instantiated, reading values from the config are simple:
```java
// Read values from section #1
int key1 = config.get("Section1/key1").asInteger().orElse(-1);
boolean key2 = config.get("Section1/key2").asBoolean().orElse(false);
int[] key3 = config.get("Section1/key3").as(int[].class).orElse(null);
URL key4 = config.get("Section1/key4").as(URL.class).orElse(null);
```
The config language may look simple but it is a very powerful feature with many capabilities including:
-
Support for storing and retrieving any of the following data types:
- Primitives
- POJOs
- Beans
- Arrays, Maps, and Collections of anything
- Binary data
-
Transactional modifications with commit/rollback capabilities.
-
A listener API.
-
Filesystem watcher integration allowing changes on the file system to be reflected in real-time.
-
Modifications through the Config class (e.g. add/remove/modify sections and keys, add/remove comments and whitespace, etc...)
**DO NOT** cause loss of formatting in the file.
All existing whitespace and comments are preserved for you!
-
Value encoding for added security.
-
Support for SVL variables.
-
Directly populate beans from config sections.
-
Accessing config sections through Java interface proxies.
-
An extensible storage API allows you to write your own config storage (e.g. storage in databases or the cloud).